1. The pre-MS EEP (PreMS) is chosen to identify the
point at which the central temperature (Tc) rises above
a certain value (lower than necessary for sustained nuclear
reactions). By default this is set at log(Tc) = 5:0 but
the pre-MS point be chosen as early as possible. If the
first point in the stellar evolution track is already above
this threshold, we simply use the first point. It is implicitly
assumed that even substellar objects, nominally
M . 0:08M, will meet the PreMS Tc condition.

2. The zero-age main sequence (ZAMS) EEP is taken as
the first point after the H-burning luminosity exceeds
99.9% of the total luminosity and before the central H
mass fraction has fallen by below its initial value by
0.0015. In the substellar case where neither of these
criteria is met, the ZAMS point is taken as the maximum
in Tc along the evolutionary track.

3.-4. Towards the end of core H-burning 2 primary EEPs are
defined at Xc = 0:3 (intermediate age main sequence:
IAMS) and Xc = 10-12 (terminal age main sequence:
TAMS). Two points are used to isolate the portion of the
MS that may or may not be influenced by the presence
of a convective core. The practical choice of placing
two primary EEPs near the end of the MS greatly simplifies
the treatment of the ‘convective hook’ feature in
the H-R diagram. In the substellar case, for which no
central H is consumed, the final point in the track is
chosen as the TAMS provided that the age at that point
is greater than some minimum (e.g., 20 Gyr).

5. The RGB tip (RGBTip) EEP identifies the point at
which the stellar luminosity reaches a maximum—or
the stellar Teff reaches a minimum—after core H burning
is complete but before core He burning has progressed
significantly. This EEP has a recognizable location
on the H-R diagram of low- and intermediate mass
stars, hence the name, but the point defined here can
also be located in high-mass stellar tracks that do not go
through a ‘red giant’ phase. This is achieved by taking
the point at which the luminosity reaches a maximum
or the Teff reaches a minimum, whichever comes first,
before the center He mass fraction (Yc) is significantly
reduced by He burning: Yc Yc;TAMS - 0:01.

6. The zero age core He burning (ZACHeB) EEP denotes
the onset of sustained core He burning. The point is
identified as the Tc minimum that occurs after the onset
of He-burning (RGBTip) while Yc >Yc;RGBTip -0:03.
This temperature minimum is readily identifiable in
lower-mass stars (Minit < 2M) because the Tc-c evolution
in this interval has a particular shape due to the
off-center ignition of He burning under degenerate conditions
(Paxton et al. 2011). The same feature is less
obvious in higher-mass stars with non-degenerate cores
but still identifiable.

7. One primary EEP is identified at the end of core He
burning (terminal age core He burning: TACHeB) corresponding
Yc = 10-4.

8a. The EEP marking the onset of the thermally-pulsing
AGB (TP-AGB) is identified as the point after core He
burning (Yc < 10-6) when the difference in mass between
the H-burning and He-burning shell is less than
0:1M. This is the same criterion used in MESA star
to identify the onset of thermal pulsations.

8b. For stellar models that are massive enough to bypass
the TP-AGB and proceed to later phases of core burning,
the final EEP is set at the end of core C burning
(CBurn), when the central C mass fraction falls below
10-4. This marks the end of the primary EEPs for massive
stars. The remaining primary EEPs are only applicable
to low- and intermediate-mass stars.

9. A post-AGB (PostAGB) EEP is identified only in stellar
models that will go on to form a WD. It is meant to locate
the point at which the TP-AGB phase has ended
and the star has begun to cross the H-R diagram at
nearly constant luminosity. The PostAGB EEP is defined
as the point at which the H-rich stellar envelope
falls below 20% of the current stellar mass.

10. The WDCS EEP, which follows the Post-AGB, is based
on the central value of the Coulomb coupling parameter
􀀀, with a default upper limit of 100. WDCS is only
considered for models that have a PostAGB EEP.
